LGPL 2.1 中文说明
================
GNU 较宽松公共许可证, 1999.2, 第 2.1 版
可以在开源软件或商业软件中免费使用本项目，但不可改变本项目的版权信息和销售本项目的任何修改版本。

有关复制，发布和修改的条款和条件
---------------------------

1. 只要您在每一程式副本上明显和恰当地宣告版权声明和不承担担保的声明，并保持此许可证的声明和没有担保的声明完整无损，并和程式一起给其他每位程式接受者一份许可证的副本，您就可以用任何媒体复制和发布您收到的函数库的完整原始码。

    > * 您可以为转让副本的实际行动收取一定费用。您也可以选择提供担保以换取一定的费用。

2. 只要您同时满足下面的所有条件，您就可以按前面第一款的要求修改函数库的一个或几个副本或它的任何部分，以此形成基于此函数库的作品，并且复制和发布这一经过修改的程式或作品:

    > * 被修改的作品本身必须是一个软体函数库。

    > * 您必须在修改过的档案中附有明确的说明：您修改了此一档案及任何修改的日期。

    > * 您必须让整个作品允许第三方在此许可证条款下可以免费使用。

    > * 如果修改过的函数库其某个设备使用到了「使用本函数库的应用程式」所提供的函数或资料表格，却不是当此设备被调用时以参数列传入时，则您必须确实做到，当应用程式不提供这样的函数或表格时，则此设备依旧能工作，且其执行的任何目的仍然有意义。

    > * 这些要求适用于整个修改过的作品。如果能够确定作品的一部分并非本函数库的衍生产品，且可以合理地单独考虑并将它与原作品分开的话，则当您将它作为独立的作品发布时，它不受此许可证和其条款的约束。但是当您将这部分与基于本函数库的作品一同发布时，则整个套件将受到本许可证条款约束，其对于其他许可证持有人的使用范围扩大到整个产品，也就是套件的每个部分，不管它是谁写的。

    > 因此，本条款的意图不在于索取权利，或剥夺完全由您完成的作品的权利，而是履行权利来控制基于本函数库的集体作品或衍生作品的发布。 此外，将与本函数库无关的作品和本函数库 (或基于本函数库的作品) 一起放在贮存媒体或发布媒体的同一卷上，并不导致将其他作品置于此许可证的约束范围之内。

3. 对于一个函数库的副本，您可以选择性地使用原来的 GNU 通用公共许可证上的条款来取代本许可证上的条款。如果您要这么做，您必须修改所有的参考到本许可证的注意事项，使它们指向原来的 GNU 通用公共许可证，第二版，以取代本许可证(如果有比第二版的原来的 GNU 通用公共许可证更新的版本出现的话，则如果您愿意的话可以特别指明使用新版)。请不要对这些注意事项做出其他的改变。

    > * 一旦在一个副本上做了这样的改变，则该副本就无法撤回这样的改变，故原来的 GNU 通用公共许可证将适用于所有后续的副本以及由此副本衍生出来的作品。

    > * 此一选择性适用于当您想要将一部分的函数库原始码复制到一个非函数库的程式使用时。

4. 您可以以目标码或可执行形式复制或发布本函数库 (或符合第 2 款，基于本函数库的作品)，只要您遵守前面的第 1、2 款，并同时提供完整的相关机器可读的原始码，而这些原始码必须在前面的第 1 与第 2 款条件下，在一般习惯上用来做软体交换的媒体上发布。

    > 如果所发布的目标码是由指定的地点提供拷贝索取，那么由同一地点所提供等价的原始码拷贝索取可以算作原始码的发布，即使第三方不强求与目标码一起复制原始码。

5. 一个程式若包含不经任何部分修改的函数库，但却是设计经由编译或连结的方式与本函数库一同工作者，称之为 "使用函数库的作品"。这样的一个作品，严格地说，并非本函数库的衍生作品，因而不在本许可证的范围之内。

    > 然而，将 "使用函数库的作品" 与本函数库连结而产生可执行程式，则是本函数库的衍生品 (因为它包函了本函数库的一部分)，而不是 "使用函数库的作品"，因此其可执行程式包含在本许可证的范围内。第 6 款说明了发布此可执行程式的条款。

    > 当 "使用函数库的作品" 使用了函数库部分的标头档内容时，则此作品即使其原始码不属于本函数库的衍生品，但其目标码仍然是。这一点是否为真特别在是否本作品可以在不需要本函数库即可连结，或者是否该作品本身也是一个函数库时特别明显。

    > 如果这样的目标档只使用数字参数、资料结构层级与附属品、以及小巨集和小内□式 (小于或等于十行) ，则此目标档的使用是不受限的，不论是否它是合法的衍生作品。 (但可执行程式若包函此目标档以及一部分的函数库，仍然将在第 6 款的规定下)

    > 否则的话，如果本作品是本函数库的衍生品，您必须在第 6 款的规定下发布该作品的目标码。任何包含该作品的可执行程式也在第 6 款的范围内，不论它们是否直接与本函数库连结。

6. 做为上述条款的例外情况，您也可以将 "使用函数库的作品" 与本函数库结合或连结，以产生包含部分本函数库的作品，并在允许使用者自身使用时可以修改该作品，以及在对修改进行反组译除错的情况下，您可以依照您的选择发布该作品。

    > 您必须在每个作品的副本突显出如下的注意事项：本函数库在作品中被使用，以及本函数库以及它的使用是在本许可证的规定下。您必须提供本许可证的副本。如果该作品在执行时显示版权声明，您必须在其中包含本函数库的版权声明，以及指引使用者取得本许可证的副本。同时，您必须做到以下其中一件事： 


    > 必须将完整的机器可读的函数库原始码包含在该作品中，包括任何该作品使用到的改变 (这些改变必须在前述第 1 与第 2 款的要求下发布)；而且，如果该作品是一个与函数库连结的「完整的、机器可□的 "使用函数库的作品"」，则要有目标码和/或原始码，如此使用者可以修改本函数库且可以重新连结，以产生包函修改过的函数库的修改过的可执行程式。 (理所当然的若使用者修改了函数库的档案定义内容时，则该作品不必然可以重新编译以使用修改过的定义。)

    > 在与函数库连结时使用适当的分享函数库连结机制。一个适当的机制是： (1) 在执行时使用已存在于使用者的电脑中的函数库副本，而不是将函数库的函数复制到可执行程式里，以及 (2) 如果使用者安装了一份修改过的函数库，只要修改过的版本在介面上与该作品在编译连结时所用的版本是相容的，则该执行程式可以与修改过的函数库运作良好。

    > 在该作品内提供书面报价，有效期不少于三年，以提供同样的使用者上述第 6a 款中的内容，费用不得超过该程式发布的实际成本。 如果所发布的作品是由指定的地点提供拷贝索取，则由同一地点提供上述内容的等价拷贝索取。

    > 确定使用者已经收到该作品的一份复制，或是您已经寄给该使用者一份复制品。
    对于一个可执行程式，其所需的 "使用函数库的作品" 的形式必须包括任何要从中再产生可执行程式时所需的资料与工具程式。然而，有一个特殊例外，其所发布的内容不需要包括任何一般与「可执行本程式的作业系统」的主要部分 (如编译器、核心等) 一起发布的部分 (不论是原始码或可执行码)，除非这些组成部分和可执行作品结合在一起。

    > 有一个可能情况是，这些要求与其他通常不与作业系统在一起的私有函数库的版权限制相抵触，这样的抵触表示您不能将它们与本函数库一起用于您发布的可执行程式中。

7. 您可以将使用本函数库的函数库设备，以及其他不在本许可证范围内的函数库，对等地放入一个单独的函数库中，并在基于本函数库的作品以及其他函数库在其他状态下同意可以个别发布，以及您做到以下两点的情况下，您可以发布此结合的函数库：

    > 将基于本函数库的作品单独不与其他函数库设备结合地，与此结合的函数库一同发布。该作品必须在上述条款的规定下发布。

    > 在此结合的函数库中明显地指出其中一部分的作品是基于本函数库，并且说明那里可以找到同样不具结合形式的作品。 
    
8. 除非您明确按许可证提出的要求去做，否则您不能复制、修改、转发许可证、与本函数库连结、和发布本函数库。任何试图用其他方式复制、修改、转发许可证、与本函数库连结、和发布本函数库是无效的，而且将自动结束许可证赋予您的权利。然而，对那些从您那里按许可证条款得到副本和权利的人们，只要他们继续全面履行条款，许可证赋予他们的权利仍然有效。

9. 您没有在许可证上签字，因而您没有必要一定接受此一许可证。然而，没有任何其他东西赋予您修改和发布本函数库及其衍生作品的权利。如果您不接受许可证，这些行为是法律禁止的。因此，如果您修改或发布函数库 (或任何基于函数库的作品) ，您就表明您接受这一许可证以及它的所有有关复制、发布和修改本函数库或基于它的作品的条款和条件。

10. 每当您重新发布函数库 (或任何基于函数库的作品) 时，接受者自动从原始许可证颁发者那里接到受这些条款和条件支配的复制、发布、连结或修改本函数库的许可。您不可以强迫接受者履行除了这里赋予他们的权利之外的其他限制。您也没有强求第三方履行许可证条款的义务。

11. 如果由于法院判决或违反专利的指控或任何其他原因 (不限于专利问题) 的结果，使得强加于您的条件 (不管是法院判决，协议书或其他) 和许可证的条件有冲突时，他们也不能令您背离许可证的条款。在您不能同时满足本许可证规定的义务及其他相关的义务来发布函数库时，则结果您只能够根本不发布函数库。例如，如果某一专利许可证不允许所有直接或间接从您那里接受副本的人们，在不付专利费的情况下重新发布函数库，唯一能同时满足两方面要求的办法是停止发布函数库。

    > 如果本条款的任何部分在特定的环境下无效或无法实施，就使用条款的其余部分，并将这部分条款作为整体用于其他环境。 本条款的目的不在于引诱您侵犯专利或其他财产权的要求，或争论这种要求的有效性。本条款的主要目的在于保护自由软体发布系统的完整性。它是通过公共许可证的应用来实现的。许多人已依赖同是出自此系统的应用程式，经由此系统发布大量自由软体而做出慷慨的供献。作者/捐献者有权决定他/她是否通过任何其他系统发布软体，许可证持有人不能强加这种选择。

许可证其余部分可能产生的结果
-----------------------

1. 如果由于专利或者由于有版权的介面问题使函数库在某些国家的发布和使用受到限制，则在许可证约束下的原始版权拥有者可以增加发布地区的限制条款，将这些国家明确排除在外，并在这些国家以外的地区发布函数库。在这种情况下，许可证套件含的限制条款和许可证正文一样有效。 13. 自由软体基金会可能随时出版较宽松通用公共许可证的修改版或新版。新版和当前的版本在原则上保持一致，但在提到新问题时或有关事项时，在细节上可能出现差别。

    > 每一版本都有不同的版本号。如果函数库指定可适用的许可证版本号以及 "任何更新的版本" ，您有权选择遵循指定的版本或自由软体基金会以后出版的新版本。如果函数库未指定许可证版本，您可选择自由软体基金会已经出版的任何版本。 14. 如果您愿意将函数库的一部分结合到其他自由程式中，而它们的发布条件不同，请写信给作者，要求准予使用。如果是自由软体基金会加以版权保护的软体，写信给自由软体基金会，我们有时会作为例外的情况处理。我们的决定受两个主要目标的指导，这两个主要目标是：我们的自由软体的衍生作品继续保持自由状态，以及从整体上促进软体的共享和重复利用。

2. 由于函数库准予免费使用，在适用法准许的范围内，对函数库没有担保。除非另有书面说明，版权所有者和/或其他提供函数库的人们 "一样" 不提供任何类型的担保，不论是明确的，还是隐含的，包括但不限于可销售和适合特定用途的隐含保证。全部的风险，如函数库的质量和性能问题都由您来承担。如果函数库出现缺陷，您应当承担所有必要的服务、修复和改正的费用。

3. 除非适用法或书面协议的要求，在任何情况下，任何版权所有者或任何按许可证条款修改和发布函数库的人们都不对您的损失负有任何责任。包括由于使用或不能使用函数库引起的任何一般的、特殊的、偶然发生的或重大的损失 (包括但不限于数据的损失，或者数据变得不精确，或者您或第三方的持续的损失，或者函数库不能和其他软体协调运行等) 。即使版权所有者和其他人提到这种损失的可能性也不例外。

LGPL 2.1 English
================

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    {{description}}
    Copyright (C) {{year}}  {{fullname}}

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  {signature of Ty Coon}, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!
